Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that reckons David Carno can get his own goddamn coffee.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Adam.
I have a couple of those, Catherine de' Medici plushy hat things that your mum used to wear in the 70s, stuck on exactly the same frickin' rye that who's worn this one than Leo McCern, Leighton.
Christopher Lee to start with, thank you.
And this one has got that.
We've talked about the colour of it before.
Champagne, pussy blush.
That's actually the pink fucking, excuse me, die that they put on it.
And that's what I am for this episode.
Yay.
We've had a drink, do listener.
We absolutely have. we're going to need it.
So we are watching season one, episode 20 or seven.
Why is it awesome?
Oh, because it's also very complicated.
Nathan wants it in ATB broadcast.
Which is only a regional and not in production order.
So we're actually doing it in UK order.
No, ATV.
There are four.
Oh yes, you're right.
You're right.
I think that's the order that the mysterious DVD that I have puts it in.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because someone put it on the internet like that and that's where I found it.
Well, the Blu-ray collection is in that order.
And according to that order, it was just over 50 years ago that this episode, 1st broadcast.
You're absolutely right.
It was 22nd of January, 1976.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So just Ouch.
Yeah, I know, frightening.
Is this the point we should mention, special guest star appearance this week?
The Joan Collins of the podcast.
Adams, Adam, if you saw this...
GTV 9 Melbourne was the 1st station in the universe to show this.
Oh really?
Yeah, we got it earlier than like anyone else.
Yeah, and Melbourne got it before Sydney before Queensland.
I remember watching it once after the stall gift. have no idea what that is.
The stall gift is so stall is a regional town in Victoria.
And they have a thing called the store gift, which is like a 100 metre foot race.
Yeah okay.
And in the country.
And it would be broadcast.
It was like, I don't know if it was on the Queen's birthday or some public holiday and they would just run.
And they would just show this on television for 10 minutes because it's 100 metres.
It doesn't last long. 10 minutes.
So there's been live, like my dad would insist on watching it, and then it finished, and then this came on.
I was like, a space show.
It wasn't this one, was it?
It wasn't this particular episode.
No, and then they had an Eagle one at the, you know, one of those models you make.
It was like it was the news agents.
Yeah, it was massive.
Like it was huge and it helps launch colour television in Australia and Channel 7 here in Sydney.
Like it was a big deal.
It was a sort of giant deal and who can say why?
It's because it's beautiful and glamorous and it's a bit wrong.
It's so wrong It's wrong on lots of levels.
It doesn't get Epsteini wrong.
But although this episode, but it gets, it just gets a bit, no, don't do that.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, the effects work is incredible.
Unbelievable.
It's Jerry Anderson.
Nick Alder and Brian John Cock or Stone?
And it's all, you know, they all worked on 2001 of Space Odyssey.
So it looks magnificent until they go inside.
Yeah, cue this episode.
I have to say that the that this set that we spend a lot of time in... is very, very much cheaper than the sort of thing that we've grown used.
This is the point where they're running so far behind. on the shooting schedule and turns out, we've got enough money for a map painting and a hat and sorry, we've got to use the wig.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Although, it's an animated map painting and I don't mind that.
It is pretty good.
It is.
They put a bling bling behind it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did anyone have the letter set version of this when you were kids?
I'll get to that.
We will.
Absolutely.
Talk about it.
It is startling Barbara Bain.
Super action heroes.
Terror of the planet Cyborg.
I've got pics running.
So I think we're going to go straight in because this is...
It's 50 very languorous minutes. and we have to keep talking for that amount of time.
Come on, double speed.
You won't notice the difference.
Yeah, yeah.
No one will know.
It is Peter Cushing, though. you have when you don't have Christopher material.
Yeah, exactly.
So I think we should go for it.
So, Richard, your finger is poised hovering over the play button.
Very excited.
And I'm going to give you a keyword and that keyword is tempest.
I thought it was going to be wig related.
No, no, no, no.
I decided to go highbrow.
Like Tempest Bledsword?
Cosby shirt?
Shakespeare play.
What does does that make?
Oh, by the way, because I'll get to that.
But does that make Martin Landau Caliban?
Yeah, I think it does.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So the next time I say that word, Richard and listener at home, I want you to press the play button.
Are we ready?
Yes.
Okay.
Tempest And we're off.
I've got a lovely big bouncy. isn't that pretty?
I love the moon.
I love the moon and we have some, we have, you know, we obviously have a black space for the moon to travel along.
And we have a beautiful amethyst planet.
It's not a usual prolapse planet that we've grown up.
Speaking of prolapse, we've got we've got Paul Morrow's ass action.
There's always butt acting in this one. because of the cut.
There is a lot of um, yeah, there's a lot of serious moustache acting in this. great, isn't it?
But everyone's so attractive. like they literally everyone's a model.
Yes.
And then there's Mark...
And then there's Marty.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. poor old Marty.
I know.
Although, yeah, super secret crush, Barry Moore.
I love Barry Morse.
I loved him as a kid. and I think I was right.
I think I've said, you know, he's the anti-spock.
He's the science officer who is incredibly humane and humanistic, accepting this episode. except in this episode.
We should mention this is another Edward de Lorenzo script. talk about high concept.
It was actually with...
I know gorgeous, gorgeous moments.
So this was super duper high concept to start with and then Jerry went, nah, and took a few things out.
Oh, discuss that as we go along.
Do you know there was a rule apparently in Star Trek where the ships are never allowed to be upside down?
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, yeah.
Why is that?
Like if that's where the bolt is.
That's where the street.
Yeah, that's right. for it.
She bounces.
Whee, whee.
So, boys, we're missing 4 minutes of footage here.
Oh, really?
So, yeah, well, Kernig, Bergman, Carter, and Sandra were searching for mineral deposits on the lunar surface here.
Right.
This is in the original Delorenzo.
Oh, look at his vagina on his head.
Oh no, it's her time of the month.
That shot.
Look at that.
Beautiful shot.
Going into the opening credit shot. one of the few times we see the backy bits of an eagle.
Yeah, it's one is because computer had already said Planet Crichton has no life and no fleshy substance.
And they cut it.
And that's what, yeah, well...
It was called Planet Crichton after the director of many episodes or...
Oh, Jonah Donham.
And lots of eggplant sleeves having issues.
I'm just here for the fricking hats.
I need to know who Joanna Durham is.
Dunham.
Dunham?
Who is she?
She's a bit classy.
She's a bit RSC.
She's a bit.
Are you texting with her?
You usually are.
I do actually have a naughty habit of finding people who are still alive.
An annoying them.
Poor Anna, Andre.
I think we're actually kind of like really close now because...
Do you know why she tells me the filthier stories about Roger Moore?
I want to hear them.
I think I watched this like 4 or 5 episodes before I realised that the opening was telling me what...
Yeah, because I was like, why are they on the moon and nowhere near earth?
They should have had a song like Gilligan's Island explaining the premise.
Can you imagine?
The moon was lost.
You know, you know the Italian cuts?
Because the Italians saw it 9 months before anybody in the world.
Oh, wow.
In the cinemas, of course, the colour.
They didn't have black and white.
And they edited its episodes together, but they had an Italian pop group do a theme tune at the end called Spazio with lyrics.
Look at this.
Oh, no.
There are shots where they spell Koenig's name wrong on the thing.
It's not in this shot, but we will actually see where they get the Ian the O. The role player out?
They do.
Kiernig.
I just love all the model work.
It's so stunning. so good.
Also, I love the doctor in a spacesuit.
Oh, yeah.
Yep.
No, I had, she's not in this one very much, and I need to complain because write a letter to your member.
I will.
Anthony Albanese, so I don't expect very much.
But I obviously this is called Startling Barbara Bain, and we adorn every episode with a screenshot with Barbara in it, but she's not in it very much, but there is...
Like you could have used the screen.
No, isn't that, isn't that, is that her?
I think that that one.
I just like to pretend...
She was in she was in the outfit. in the last screenshot that we had.
But she is thoroughly startled at the end of the episode and I've taken the opportunity to use that.
I actually think that this is one of the most interesting things.
So we've seen Kernig unconscious and bleeding from his head...
And then we see him again.
Yeah, then we see him again.
And so we're like, who is the guy on the planet?
Exactly.
And you just sort of assume, oh, it's an evil alien, does, you know, who looks like her.
You know, you assume that.
I assume that this is like many of the shows I watched when I was a kid and they've just edited in the wrong...
This was all shot.
Exactly.
This was all shot 11 weeks after the episode.
Terry said it makes no sense.
Oh, so that's why you're seeing all the cockbeat stuff.
Ah, Tanya Alexander?
Who's saying words?
It's like she can talk.
A couple words.
Like couple words.
She's doing the accent?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now, how pretty is Paul Morrow?
He's delightfully pretty, but he has the acting skills of a potato.
Our theory is, whose theory is this?
We have a theory.
I might be yours I think.
It might be.
No, no, I'm sure I got it from somewhere.
All of my things come from someone else.
It's that the less he's in something.
Yes, the better he is.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Reebos operation, which is hardly in. is fabulous. amazing.
This, actually, I quite like him in this.
It might be that thing that we have where it's like, is he hot or does he have a moustache?
And.com.
Yeah, yeah.
He does definitely have a moustache.
Has a moustache.
And also he looks great in a skin tight suit.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, that's why Sylvia cast them all because she was she had the final nod and it was whether she wanted to bang them or not.
I met Sylvia when I was 25.
She was a force of nature.
Did she do a mean fox trot?
She was actually just so overwhelmed by the other fans at the table.
And she sat next to me because I actually talked about stuff like filming. which actually just made me more specky, but anyway.
I love that everything you press on this based makes a bleeping... we do the noises.
Can you, as a child, take the staple or the, come on, but what did you use?
and go and make the noise.
I, I, anything that had buttons on it, and there was a tyre pressure gauge that was nice on a screwdriver.
Yes.
But, but, like, just the idea that I would now have a desk, which just had buttons on it, just like Carno's buttons, um, like.
We are handing Adam the original 1976 water pistol.
Oh, I need you to reenact Martin Landau from the series 2 opening credits.
That's it.
When I was a kid, we had a toilet door that slid.
Yeah.
Like, it was sliding door.
So you had to go.
So I was always like...
Just then.
I think Victor's been colouring in the Gonads.
Did you see that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Again, with his...
And titties.
Yeah, Neo, Neo...
Oh, Neo with his Neo Marcus.
Neo Marcus yeah.
I love the lighting on this is very film noir.
Like, you know, when Joan Crawford would just walk into the light.
So it hit any of us at our own.
But it is also the thing that they use for close-ups of Barbara all the time.
Yes, literally.
You know that's in a contract, Adam?
Yeah.
It actually was.
She had to be shot through gauze.
I remember when she was in moonlighting and she was the only person who was ever blurrier than Sybil Shepherd.
I don't know how you would have made her out.
That's a French and saw this game.
Keep laying more and more and they end up shooting them through fucking...
Look, Keoni.
Ke only.
Oh my god.
What is wrong?
love it.
They just kept that.
Just to shit him.
Just annoy me.
Oh my god, there's a man in the mirror.
That should have been terrifying.
Oh, maybe it's Keonig because Peter Cushing can't spell.
This was the point. at which the Landows were being super special, but behind...
Barbara Payne. absolutely.
So it wasn't really known to the other actors, but they would keep marching into Sylvia, mostly Sylvia and just saying, God damn it.
And, you know, we're not getting equal screen time and so-and-so, just really freaking special.
Yeah, I mean, in front of the other actors, interestingly.
I, like, that sounds horrific, but I've worked in the entertainment industry, though. to know that that's polite.
I don't know if you've ever read the Harlan Ellison's book about this, like, the original version of the city on the Edge of Forever from start.
Oh okay.
And he kept getting told to do rewrites.
And one time, William Shatner said, I'll come over and read it and, you know, we'll we'll get this through because I really love it.
I think it's a great script.
And he said he sat there watching William Shatner reading it and was like, with his lips moving?
What is he?
kind of because he realised he was counting his lines. to make sure he had more than anyone else.
Wow.
And I was like, oh, yeah.
Harlan thought he was doing a solid and... like I have to say, like, I think this episode is generally pretty boring.
Oh, it's so dull.
You barely, you're not real fans.
No.
But I do think this is great.
It looks amazing.
Yeah, yeah.
And I, like, just the idea because we don't know.
I think we do know that this is Coning now, just because we're spending so much time looking at him and it's not ominous or anything, you know, it's not a changeling who's sort of come along.
It is him just experiencing a weird version of the bass.
But we're allowed, and that, you know, that odd thing with his, which we're now seeing for the 2nd time, like he comes into another room with a scanner of him.
And then he sees the ghostly woman.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like, I think it's good.
And like we've talked before about the fact that like heaps of the special effects just have to be done in camera and that makes them really good.
Yeah, and also we're watching all film and it does make a difference.
Us children of the Doctor Who universe.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
We're used to watching some really ropey video.
Like even this, like you can get a great angle like this.
Yeah.
What she doing?
She's just spreading the blood around.
That's right.
She's like, she's got an in the blood.
She's got a PhD in spreading the blood around.
More butt acting.
He's sitting down.
I'm hit the butt to the left, but okay.
Okay, okay.
Oh, this guy. acting.
And it's Kano.
It's Kano.
Kano's hot.
Oh, they're all hot.
And he's not as hot as Bob, but...
Is Bob the other moustache?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Boys, boys and listener, keep your eyes peeled.
This is the one where Nick Tate, being a proper Aussie, knocks Bob out for real.
Watch for the cat.
Oh, really?
It's not actually Nick's fault.
It's, it's, um, Anton's fault.
Oh, really?
Yeah, yeah, Anton.
By the way, I did notice that Nick Tate did the Adelaide and Melbourne pronunciations of the letter A in this episode.
Yeah, he split he split the difference both ways. the same word.
Like, I think he said, um, it was, I can't remember.
Was it either Chance or Chance or one of those?
Oh, okay.
And he said he gave us both.
And I'm like, well good on you. treating everyone equally.
It's a Cremon boy.
Yeah.
Also, we're on, um, 0 alcohol, you know, uh, what's that crap called, no regrets, alerts, Clayton.
Clayton.
It is Clayton's.
Normally we have a colour alert this week.
Nothing.
No Midori alert.
Thank you.
Clayton's alert.
It was kind of like, looked like Evie an alert.
Every other.
It just is so beautifully atmospheric.
Also, he finally gets as much of Aselina as Babster.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, the whole universe gets a lot of Vasso.
I'm happy just to sit here for 45 minutes and look at the scene.
Me too.
Oh no, absolutely.
I'm really happy when they're not talking.
No, no.
Because it interrupts the set.
I love it.
Look at the set.
The set is amazing.
Oh, Keith Wilson.
It just like a few weeks ago, maybe a few months ago now.
I experimentally took a look at series 2 episode.
Could you do that to yourself?
And it was just like, fuck me.
Like, shot it in a car.
I know it's minuscule.
It's like the tiniest corner of that movie.
Not the movie, George.
Bob.
Yeah.
No.
I'm a pinewood sign, size queen, for sure.
Like, this looks like it's got the ghost of Ken Adam on it.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, it's funny to say that.
Oh, and this is very Star Trek.
It's like a Star Trek match shot.
But it's also...
It's a Ray Capelle Matte painting.
It's beautiful.
It's actually on artist board.
It's not on glass It's quite big, but it's still smaller than a two.
And so there are real lights under the thing.
Look, there's 2 versions of it.
There's one with sprinkly winkly lights, which...
Now he's going for a ride on the camera.
Yeah.
He's on Dizzy Doctor.
He's having a wizzy dizzy.
Yeah, he's on Babs's lazy Susan from that.
Oh, you know what he's on?
He's on Kano's desk.
This is the 1st time Kano's desk with the revolving thing actually appears.
And now we're getting mirror on as well?
Like it's super trippy.
You know where they got that from that spinning thing is because they're in television.
That's where they put the goalposts where you're working in TV.
So you can never quite get anything through them.
So there's a story.
Finally, Bicardi Breezer alert.
Yeah.
So there's a story about the dry ice where Xenia complains that the dry ice is going to cover her.
But I may as well not be in this scene.
She was actually northern.
She did sound like, yeah, it was terrible.
Why cow?
And what is going on with Peter?
We're wearing Christopher Lee's wig, but this time champagne pussy blush rinse.
It was called something like that.
That what?
So I don't understand. forgive me for asking a really stupid question.
These people are human beings from 1000000 years, 10000s of years into the future.
Now, one of the things I like about Space 1999 is that they do seem to have ended up somehow in the distant future.
Like there's no way they can get home because their home doesn't exist anymore.
Is that it?
Go on.
In the original script, should I interrupt in the original script?
De Lorenzo script?
It's our species 20000 years ahead.
Yeah, but that's how the dialogue seems to be worse.
You get that.
And because of the warping of space, that was caused not just by the moon, but by the inhabitants of Planet Meta.
This is all in the Bible.
And Del Lorenzo helped write this.
It does sound like a hair product, doesn't it?
But Lorenzo was...
Like Isla wants a face.
It's a Zeno.
Isla, what's a?
That is exactly her name. her name?
Isla what's the...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And she was like from the distant future as well.
We've had like distant future before.
But they say, you know, because the title missing link doesn't work unless these are far future human beings, right?
Otherwise, Somebody's finally maddered.
But they're made of light, he just said.
Yeah, and their product is made of life.
Well, the city's made of light. and fuzzy felt hats And his shirt is the most beautiful see-through blouse I've ever seen.
But again, like just shine a light on him.
Like that's awesome.
Cushing said, I absolutely adored playing a wicked de Medici.
Telling everyone how to behave, but I was scraping. that bloody gold makeup off my pillows for weeks.
Look how beatific he looks.
He does look like Kenneth Williams selling a rinse, doesn't he?
So my name is Ron.
He's called Ron.
Which is how you say Ryan, if you're from a really popular...
This is my son.
Here goes to Melbourne Grammar.
I'm ran from the North Shore.
But this looks like the cover of a Hugo Award-winning novel.
It is based on, it wasn't Chris Foss.
There were other artists who are.
Yeah, but very much the most 70s.
Ted vagina again.
Yeah.
Yes.
And also what I kind of like is the fact that this is, so the Kernig that is on Moonpace Alpha.
No, wait.
The Kernigs that's on the real Moonbase Alpha is a real Kearney.
Yes.
And this is like a mind projection.
No, no, but it's the real thing, but no, this is why it's so interesting because Lorenzo, I do get woo-woo on this thing.
De Lorenzo was really into Yawn, like everyone in the early 70s.
Yeah, everyone was into it.
And Procol Harem and Darkside of the Moon and blah, blah.
So the theory was, and the quantum physicists seem to be supporting this, and they actually were writing about this now, we are actually as energy beings, we are actually photons.
We are actually made of light.
So we will get to that point in our natural evolution where we will still have, our bodies may remain somewhere, but we will be animated in light.
And that's where this comes.
Oh, okay.
So he's like a light consciousness.
Throw in a lot of different albums and a lot of what your mum used to put around the house to make it smell nice and yes.
So someone's pulled his finger and he has farted out of consciousness.
Oh, he had a cut in his head.
That's the idea.
This is this is Joanna Dunham.
Is she a model?
She did a lot of TV sort of stuff in the 70s and 80s.
Did she do an event?
She's most on, no, but she did do Are you being served?
Which one of those women who came in with like a model and then the tits.
Yes.
She was Franco Zepirelli.
Inspiration for the mushroom princess in Donkey Kong.
I love that she's wearing mum's old fish girl's mobile, but around her face, which I always wanted to do.
This is what parties were like in the 70s.
What are those bookshelves with the little gaps in?
Is they good?
It's only MDF that's sprayed.
I know, but it's the rounded corner.
No, I'm not even criticised.
And also books.
Do you remember books when people had books?
I loved books.
I love that they've still got books in the future and when they're made of light.
Yeah, yeah.
Books made of light.
That's my light books.
They're all in microfish.
She was a great beauty, the planet of the microfish.
The planet of the microfish.
Fanboys.
She, Jonah Dunham was a great beauty in her time.
She's related to the Brownings, as in the Browning version.
But she's probably most known for her 62 Romeo and Juliet, directed by Zeparelli.
And Zeparelli said she was the Juliet he always wanted.
And when he did the film.
Because I'm talking about a theatre production. the film with Olivia Hussey and that bouncing bottom boy, what's his name?
Yes, we know that.
All we remember.
Whatever.
But yeah.
Mr. Bendum.
But yeah, she was the one that he thought was her best.
And she's so she's proper.
Oh, my Lord.
Theatrical.
Oh, look, they're gone to pick it up.
Finally, toy action.
Yeah, yeah, it's great.
This is like a triple one.
It's wonderful.
One's broke one.
Also, why is no one wearing headgear when they're about, I mean, the thing is broken and they're about to separate it, where is WH and S?
Oh, WHS?
If this were the ABC.
Oh my god, yeah.
You'd have to fill out a 6 day week risk assessment.
No, my God.
I love a shorty robe.
Okay.
Lando said, why can't why can Connery get away with it and I can't?
He's really going native.
Look at the food here.
Look at it.
You must eat.
It's the most 70s thing it's a bit of bread. and a plastic lobster and a bit of lettuce.
And some fruity Lexia.
A box of wine.
Made of light.
Just a light wine. a light snack.
Oh, I've read of Earth people and their experiments with animals.
Oh, that's not nice.
He's not once referred to a fricking hat, has he?
No.
No, he has no...
He's trying to be polite.
Her peach mushroom...
Oh, I like that pattern on his...
Yeah, yeah.
It's very period though, isn't it?
It's very sort of...
It's a bit like the carpet and wallpaper in the shining.
Is this the original shining?
I think it might be.
It's a good point.
He's a dull boy.
Lando is playing.
I know we know he's very method.
So I, I, it's been a while since I've read The Tempest.
And who is it that falls in love with Miranda?
Probably someone called Fernando or something I've completed.
In the movie, it's Leslie Nielsen.
Okay, so it's Leslie Neilson.
So he's Leslie Neilson.
He's Leslie Nielsen in Space Tempest.
Okay.
Forbidden Planet.
Oh, forbidden Planet.
Yeah.
Put your helmets on.
But it is that, isn't it?
It's kind of like, but it's very low rent.
Like it's kind of like, well, there's an old man and a woman and he's going to throw a book off a cliff later and that's really all that we do.
But it's the thing I don't understand in this is like there's a, there's not a lot kind of going on.
And all it is is, do you want to stay?
No.
Are you sure?
There's no real peril or anything?
Okay, see ya.
There's no jeopardy.
Like there is that thing where he gets attacked by people with no eyes and stuff a bit later.
I think it's exciting.
That does get exciting, but it is also just sort of weird rando dreams.
But also it's like, is it, do they need him for a reason?
No. couldn't work that out.
Like, why did they want him?
To impregnate Vana?
Right.
No, they wanted to like...
They wanted to learn valuable lessons about this human experience called love.
Which again, DeLorenzo is into like everyone else because the whole reason for manifestation in the 3rd level, which is us, rather than the 5th dimension, which is them, is to experience and develop character because in the 5th level, which these 2 are at, emotion is something that is experienced from a distance.
We don't have peril when we are on 5th dimension.
Now we're, which spirit is basically called.
I think I liked it better when it was like, you know, Joan Collins wanting to drink our Adrina crime.
In the same week.
Or Leo McCurn and his spaceship boyfriend wanting to come and kill us all.
Spaceship boyfriend.
But here, here.
Now we're back on fake moonbase alpha.
Yeah, and he's back to having a head vagina and we have scary...
We have scary.
Turn him off.
Who's going to say it first?
Oh my god.
We'll get there.
They're always doing it.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Is it Paul Morrow this week?
Excellent.
Euthanase him.
Finally.
Sandra's dead.
Yeah, we did everything she could to save her, but I mean, look, we didn't do much.
She didn't really.
I do love the drawing...
Did stop her fucking complaining.
Yes.
I was thought of that finally Victor's just getting to be himself.
It's shit Walk away.
We're all going to die one by one.
We're stranded out here.
I think he's doing an Anthony Ainley in person.
I was getting, like, it's just like Victor doesn't really sound like this.
Normally he's much more chill, but now he's suddenly kind of, you know, Rada, Victor.
I find it weird that the 3 main stars of this show always yelling at him.
Um, uh, were big stars in the US.
Like, you've got the 2 leads from Mission Impossible.
And the main guy from, what, 70?
Fugitive.
Ah, and it's like, what?
Because they were trying to bust the US market.
Guess what?
They didn't.
I mean, he is, I think, the best thing about the 1st season.
Oh, he's so great.
He's really good He anchors it, doesn't he?
Yeah.
And he's just got, like he's making such interesting choices.
Like, you know, you think he's going to be a blouse, right?
Yeah, he's having a very good blouse crap.
I don't know, actually.
Come on, sweetheart.
Maybe he might have had a beard. grope him.
Yeah, what?
I want to talk to Paul.
What for?
No, the head vagina's leaking again.
Ah, here we go.
Oh, it's her time of the month.
But all of this, like, because this is so, like, he's not reacting to the fact that Victor's behaving completely oddly.
So none of this is real.
This is all just kind of, what are we doing?
We're just using up running time at this point.
That was my whole thing with this.
It was like, nothing happens.
There's no stakes.
It's just a bunch of like made up scenes where we can pretend that, oh, let's give Barry more something to do this week so we can have an angry moment.
But the show is never like that.
Do you know what I mean?
Like, whenever it's like, even when it's kind of stupid.
Like, I think that's the stupidest one.
Oh, no, it's goldface.
Yeah.
The stupidest one that we've had so far is maybe, um, uh, Helena's dead husband one.
Oh, shit, I like that one.
Yeah, no, no.
But it was kind of stupid.
Do you know what I mean?
That's another one of these groups.
Oh, here's the zombie.
Yeah, that weird zombie people with it.
This guy has no nose, but...
How does he smell?
That guy's missing a cranium.
Missing his cranium.
And then we've got scary, the fucking guy from the ceiling.
Normally the same guys in the same year who'd be having a go at John Pertweek.
Yeah, this.
Look at this.
That guy.
Oh, can you can you give us a bit more, Marty?
No, give me the web.
I can do it in the web.
I'll give you a bit more in the web.
But I love that these sets are just curtains.
But we have seen the most magnificent spaceship sets.
Like the Leo McCern companion set was massive and huge with this giant ceiling.
It was absolutely monolithic.
And then this week it's just like flinging some curtains up in front of the...
How do you build a set of light?
Well, I know spend more money.
I know who constructed this set was Dr. Gertrude Gossip. who did her PhD in drapery at Curtain University.
Yes, exactly.
Okay, listen it, that's not made up.
We actually have a curtain universe.
That's actually true.
Are they going to hug?
Are they going to keep?
Is he, like, running another?
Carrie Bickmore.
Let's go to the ad.
No one's asking.
Again with the dry ice and the curtains.
It's not trying to hide...
Like, because it's all white curtains.
They just keep lighting them.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's the same curtain.
It's so cheap It is.
Like, did Peter Cushing turn up and go, where did I get the terrible set?
Pushing was delighted.
Only 3 weeks before he'd finished shooting the ghoul, just literally 200 yards away.
Um, and he played um, Dr. Lawrence, who animated the ghoul.
This was quite a change of pace.
Yes, I guess.
Now who's this guy?
Oh, that's one of the other.
That's another Zenite.
Yeah, another Z. Patrick Brock.
Is he someone?
Well, a gay.
A gay.
He would neutralise his mind in case he kills one of them.
That was very 80s bar scene.
I do remember that conversation.
A lot of people wore those hands.
They were very harsh and judgy.
I'm really enjoying the souffle hat.
Yeah, it is actually based on...
It is actually based on a Lorenzo de Medici painting.
Oh wow.
Yeah, the whole freaking thing.
Oh, okay.
Finally we have Sandra. something to complain about.
Yeah, yeah.
She had to lie still for all this time She complains when she has lines and she has to do acting.
She complains, which has stunts.
This week, she's having to lie still.
There's some pensive dressing gown acting.
Now, I think we're in the real world for the 1st type thing for a while.
It's certainly the hardest.
Oh, yeah, because his head vagina is healed. is healed.
And Sandra's not dead because we thought that she was, except we've seen TV before and we know.
Yes.
We should mention, because, you know, we're not watching this with sound, so you can hear us, dear listener.
But most of the, you know, did you notice that it was the same woo-woo music all the way through?
I thought the music was absolutely brilliant.
Yes, like I thought the music was really good.
The bits that aren't Stingray or Secret Service puppet as usual. is actually the stuff that Barry Morse composed for when you see Alpha Moonbase in the crater.
And I was never used to...
Barry Moore.
Sorry.
Barry Gray.
Okay.
Same people.
I'm a bit excited.
But yeah, it was meant to be Moonbase Alpha themes.
It's wonderful.
I just think it's really great and properly atmospheric.
It's the thing that the show does well.
It goes with her fish sale.
Also, I find it's really interestingly directed.
Like it's like, oh, I'm going to pan past these windows.
Yeah, give it a bit of action because otherwise I've just got this cat.
And these people stand here talking about the human concept, you know, the human thing that you call love.
Yes.
Like the director is like, I really don't have much to do here, so I'm going to do everything.
You know, it's Ray Austin.
So he's a stumpman.
Right.
And he was usually only used for stuntty action stuff.
I said that carefully.
But I think he does a lovely job for the whole mystic.
Look, I remember, I stayed up and I saw my parents' parties and it looked exactly like that.
I have weird memories, something like this as well.
My father's buddies, I should say.
They're throwing keys in a bowl at anything.
Well, he lived in Mossman with his new wife and there's very similar.
Oh, yeah, Mossman.
It's mostly Victor's parties that have the keys in the bowl, though, we've decided.
And he only invites anyone with a moustache.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
There's a lot of people who are hiding from him in the solarium.
He still finds them.
Of course he does.
The bass has a solarium.
Sometimes Ian McShane wanders through.
I mean, I love that in the future they haven't worked out that solariums will kill you, yeah.
I went in a non-Salarian the other day.
It was a red LED like, oh, no.
The coffee.
Oh, yeah.
They're like, what a pretty coffee scene.
What am I got to do to get a goddamn cup of coffee around here?
Oh, that's kind of horrible.
I mean, at least like, is this a thing?
Like, she's like a young black woman at least.
Do you recognise Julie?
At least Carno's yelling. not someone else.
Actually, and that was sensitively done.
Do you recognise June Bolton from Moonrake?
She's the one that Richard Keel almost bites. in the show.
And she's also in mind your language because everyone who isn't white is.
Oh, my God.
Oh, I loved, mind your language so much.
I know, me too.
Calvin and Calvin is a massive fan of mind your language.
He loves it.
I showed my Sri Lankan friend once and he's like, oh, I remember this show.
It was the best.
And that is why colonialism is a bad thing.
Oh no, they're going to shock him.
They've got to put the rubber in.
They should put that in his mouth like all the time, Emma.
I want to see Bob just putting it against his balls.
Bob, Bob, Bob, John.
It's like, we're just sapping his tits again, because you know what Bob's into.
Now Konig's got a full stop. at the end of his name in the thing.
Someone has a leftover lecracy.
I think Helena just gets bored.
I think Bob's actually hot.
Oh, no, I think Bob is super hot.
I was I was just tossing up, was it hotter?
Or the moustache?
I think it's both, but it is no, no, I think he's probably not.
And he has a moustache.
Yeah.
Look at that.
Get out of the way, Barbara Bain.
That say Bob.
There is.
Thank you.
Like, fuck was she paying attention?
Like that is the shittest CPR I've ever seen.
She's trying the CPR.
French polish. was expensive.
I think that that's futuristic 1999 style CPR.
Yeah.
It's a special one you learn.
Oh, no, he's changed it.
Oh no, he's alive.
That is a shame.
Because everyone's really annoyed because he's not dead.
That's why Conno's yelling at people.
Actually, all they did was a little bit of...
All they did was a little bit of CBT on his nipples.
Yeah.
Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, look, look at that.
She's doing a whole facial expression there.
She's like properly acting.
Is that the moment?
No, no, that's the, it was close.
I'm gonna open the kimono a little bit and tell people how this works. to open the Komodo.
We should explain to Adam what we're talking about.
So when I'm watching the episode, I actually note down timestamps of moments where Barbara appears on screen and look startled and look startled.
And so I have a list of kind of things that's like, you know, John's dead.
Like there's a few in this.
I do settle on the last possible moment where she is startled in a way that I don't think we've seen in the previous 19 episodes.
Like, um, but yes.
So if anyone wants to hit me up for a list of timestamps...
Barbara Bain is looking star...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I definitely have them.
Yeah.
Also, you're, well, she's meant to be 218 in this.
She does look 218 at this point.
That was kind of harsh.
The makeup is not...
Shiny makeup is never flattering.
No, okay.
I had a gig with a drag queen recently.
And it was at a roast, so it was meant to be horrible to everyone.
And she had like a bit of glitter in her foundation.
I was like, sweetheart.
The glitter is making you look like someone's just come on you.
I said, but at least it makes you look like someone found you a track.
Oh wow.
Meanwhile, look, Marty's pretty struck, isn't he?
Marty's trying to do Connery, but it just ends up.
Diamonds are forever, Connery, as in, you've not seen a treadmill for how many years and also...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And like the makeup ladies are coming with coming towards him with clippers and he's going, uh, no.
He did like showing off his chesticles.
Did you know that?
in Marty's contract that he gets to show off his chest because he was very proud of his chest.
Oh, really?
His chest mercant.
His chest.
Because I've been enjoying Patrick Stewart in his underwear in a recent... not his underwear.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Not in Picardon.
Not to be judging.
He did a lot of weird short robe work as well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He had very, very, very...
You know he played football.
Oh, now they're kissing.
Oh, no, but in that human thing you call kissing.
Why is it always a few human things you cook?
Oh, she's startled here.
Yeah, yeah, she's super cross, actually.
No, she's like, she's gonna let go.
Oh, it's good.
She's yelling at Sandra, who looks like she's complaining.
John is already dead.
Johnny's always dead.
Like, this is so weird.
Everyone's so desperate to fucking smother.
And she's the only one who knows he's still alive.
Yeah, yeah.
Because she's got chords in her head that tell her.
I think, isn't she the, like, there's her phones like the work like that.
Yeah, that is true.
That is true.
No, yeah, she's still partly in that universe.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But it's that thing where it's not super clear whether it's the rare one or the fake one and it like we end up with a kind of wrong thing.
And I kind of like that.
Like, you know, Star Trek would have to explain it to us at length, but this is space.
Oh my god, look at her.
She's so happy.
Her giant headbun.
And she does have, she, it is the great book of British smiles.
Do you know that head thing looks like a pastry from bread top?
It really does.
You know those ones you bite into and it completely deflates and there's no more bread?
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Crossed with a fish person from that Doctor Who episode.
Blouse is amazing.
I cannot get enough of his blue blouse.
And so why is that impossible?
You, like, it is... flashlight.
And I said that very carefully.
Ah, she's made of lime.
She's made of light.
Yeah.
And so they never bone, do they?
It never actually.
Well, they can't possibly because she's made of light.
Yeah, I'm sure.
So were they are they made of like, you know, the holograms in Star Trek?
No, it's just the red dwarf.
And she's hard light.
She's hard light.
No, I think they're still people.
I mean, they have to be people otherwise.
They just transcended semi-transcendent.
Okay.
No.
No, don't take my daughter.
But there's nobody wanted to begin with. very No, I don't know what he wanted.
No, I think he just wanted to experiment on him.
They'd learn about this human feeling.
We call violence.
Yeah.
Me, nice, amazing his temper.
So do you know what would cheer us up?
Killing John.
Yeah.
No, that's really what this conversation is.
We need the leader.
That's the only one who wants it, John.
Yeah.
Why is that, do you think?
Because they have shared special moments in the cockpit together when they take their helmets off.
Oh okay.
Who's going to take over?
The man and the man in the moon.
Street.
Oh fuck.
Oh, commander, that's the word.
Oh, he's a commander, sometimes the matter.
I think I do that though.
I think I think that might be a thing.
I think it might be a, you know, lower North Shore thing.
You know...
Oh, she got a kiss, Marty.
Don't.
His lips will inhale you entirely.
Oh yeah.
Why is this kiss so slow?
It's very sensual.
Yeah.
And then there's just like mashing face together.
Yeah, no, that's good.
No, don't put your tongue in your wife's in the next room.
So finally, they get cock blocked by Sandra.
Look at Sandra doing some... tongue off that gold bitch.
Yeah, but they really had to kind of lower the, you know, get rid of quite a lot of the dry eyes because Sandra, it was just the top of Sandra's head.
Yeah, that was all you could see.
Well, I mean, she's very small.
She's minuscule.
And northern.
Did you have to bring Sandra here, for God's sake, to watch us?
I'm starting a throuple.
My daughter believes Sandra Israel.
This is a whole bit that I didn't understand.
I don't know what's happening here.
The big dramatic thrust of like, is she or isn't she real?
It's like...
Like, whatever.
So there's 2 of them.
One of them is clearly real.
Have you read any of the Christopher Priest or...
Oh, James Blue, sure, look, any of the novels of this time when you were...
I know they're all very weird.
They're all very hoopy woo woo.
And it was all what is reality.
I know.
But, I mean, I like this about the Space 1999.
But here, because there's no threat, There's no actual peril.
I mean, you know, like people were executing people when Joan Collins was in charge.
Well, of course, it was John Cole.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
She got the job done.
But here we're all just sort of standing around in front of shower curtains.
It does feel like family day at the Sydney sauna, doesn't it?
It's like bringing you around.
That's it.
Bring your daughter to the sauna.
It was an Iron Maiden song, wasn't it?
I don't even know what's happening anymore.
They do it around Easter because it's, you know, it's the straight Mardi Gras.
Okay, yeah, no, fair enough.
Oh God.
Sandra's real.
Is she real?
Is she?
Is Xenia real?
Is any of us real?
What is real?
What is not real?
Like, obviously, it's before they decided that you could take mushrooms in small doses.
It really was just a 5 month window in the early 1970s, isn't it?
She's slightly cross-eyed there too, I think.
Yeah.
It's just that his eyes are so far apart, she had to take a tax.
I think that may actually be it.
Meanwhile, he's contemplating taking a new job aboard a thrilling space station at some point.
This is...
I actually think the most believable thing is Sandra, because she's just sitting there standing there going, what is this?
Like, no one's say anything.
It's just shot after shot of this guy.
I know, just looking at each other.
Come on, we gotta go.
Oh my god.
Do something.
Someone do something.
Someone try and roll yourself up in the curtain.
Pretend to be a sausage roll.
Come on.
I love this.
This is magnificent.
On the dolly, slowly receding into the dry ice.
It's wonderful and going out of focus.
You know, it's awesome. completely done in the camera. absolutely bonkers.
It's really great.
I've got no idea what's happening though.
Yeah.
But yeah, I just couldn't really get my head around.
What was meant to be happening?
No, I don't think anyone's got any idea.
No.
And it's like, oh, are we meant to think it was all a dream?
Blue goes in the right ear.
Yeah, that's it. cut the blue wire.
Otherwise, Sandra explodes.
Otherwise, you don't earth her.
Oh, no, they're going to turn him off.
It's time to turn him off.
And then the Bob going, we've waited this long.
Bob's like, turn him off so I can have you, Barbara.
Actually, that is the look.
That is the look.
It's like, that is the look.
If you turn him off, we could beat again.
But she would do it in a heartbeat, though, don't you think?
Don't bump, bump.
Oh my god.
Don't look at it.
Boom.
Yeah.
Probably already is.
Maybe they're just playing with the toggle switch, isn't it?
This is not for a bit on.
No, he's fine.
Off for a bit on.
So why is Vana's agent?
What's her name again?
What?
Judith?
Sarah?
Judith Dunham.
Joanna Donham.
Joanna.
Because she just, she does look like a fry, doesn't she?
I mean, this is not very flattering.
Also, the fact that she's got 8 different coloured hair.
Yeah, yeah.
But it's just like, we're just going to put this makeup on you so that we can see literally every wrinkle that you have here at the age of... very young.
Yeah, she's not even that old.
She just looks frightful, eh?
Is that what happens to us in the future?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's because this is what happens if they didn't have mobile phones and they still had to carry coins around.
You remember how marine they used to go?
That would be it, yeah.
Your skin used to go touch it.
What are we talking about now?
Are we just talking about how we'll think about one another, except she'll never be ever mentioned again.
Yeah.
I'll think about you at nighttime.
Well, I'm trying to undo the zip on my neck when I...
She's the Sarah Jane Smith of this set.
Oh, do you think?
Remember me, doctor.
You're right.
Bye.
Okay, do not forget me.
Or my tasty knuckle.
Oh, and she said, look again.
She's gone into the box.
She's going, yeah, that's it.
That's wonderful.
That's so great though.
I think you're right about the direction.
It is so good.
Because it's like, well, I've got nothing to do.
I've got make it look interesting.
So Adam Ray also...
What about that shot of the chair?
You must have appreciated that lynx's chair.
Hello.
Lynx's chair. really?
No, no.
He's dead.
I'm gonna kill him now.
You don't understand.
Reese.
Stop killing him.
Great butt work.
Oh, no.
Don't punch Bob.
This is it.
Oh, is that where Bob goes down?
Bob rarely goes down.
Get up.
That's a stuntman.
Oh, it is too.
The rest of the shot.
For the rest of the scene, it's Paul Western.
Because Bob was out for the entire shot.
Oh, Nick Tate.
Yeah, you're right.
It really is just, oh, and now he's taking out the fucking stuntman as well.
Oh, no, it's a purple suit, man.
They always get in the way.
They're too busy to get haircut.
His head is having a whale of a tie.
He's like a guy.
I'm gonna kick this fucking guy.
Barbara looks concerned.
You're not gonna kill him.
Why is he so passionate about that?
Because they were bumming when they had the accident.
Think about the number of times he dragged him back out of heaven.
Oh, yeah.
You know?
Oh, what's Sandra doing?
Is she still alive?
Bob's back.
Let's euthanase her too.
She never stops while we're out complaining.
Oh, no, for the experiment, it was a failure.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that was the bit that upset me.
I'm like, oh, so what he wanted didn't work.
Nothing worked.
Go back home.
But what did he want?
He just wanted him to be attacked by zombies and stuff for a while. until he died.
It felt like, um, you know, when you're, like, sometimes when you're writing, you're like, oh, I need a conflict here and I need, you know, what, what's my obstacle?
And they've gone, oh, we can't think of one, but we've got Peter Cushing.
Just hang some curtains and pretend there's a...
People will be fine.
Erect a cabana. 70s.
We'll just film it all in the ship because that's all we've got.
Until tomorrow.
They're resorting to this.
Well, now he's coming by episode seven.
No, yeah, yeah, yeah. awesome.
See you, Dolly time.
Everyone must have loved this episode.
They got to ride on the theme.
Everyone got to go.
Marty apparently loved it because he felt he got his acting chops out.
And he got to do this Wizzy Dizzy one.
Why is he telling us that?
Like, I don't know.
You could say.
Quick.
That's it.
Flick the fucking switch.
Yeah, she's turned him off.
She's like, come on, Bob, give me one. pretend to be upset about John.
Oh, he's now dead.
Even the security guy with the bad hair is kind of upset.
They've realised that it's all over now so they can let Nick Tate go.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's right. can't stop it.
Oh no.
My whole hair moved.
That's right.
He's got like Lego hair.
That's not...
He was like an old priest in EastEnders for a while.
Oh my god.
Which one?
Prentice Hankor.
Prentice.
Grandad, Prentice, handcock?
Everything.
He was in everything.
She's cross.
Yeah, she's furious.
Yeah, you can tell.
Yeah, she's having to sit up.
No, you know why she's crossed.
Because it's real sweaty under that plastic.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
She's having to use her stomach muscles as well a lot about being covered in... now he's alive.
And now...
That is fucking startled.
She has never been more star.
That was a great hair flicker.
I know, it's amazing.
She did that like 7 times.
Oh, at least.
Adam, did you know it's in her contract that she's not actually supposed to turn her head because she was worried about her neck wrinkles?
No, I'm not kidding.
So she has to do a full body turn.
That's why she's on the laser... in the opening.
Yeah, yeah.
So that's a very rare moment.
Oh, that was that was real.
And then it just stops.
Yeah.
We don't even have like a, 0 my god, you won't believe what happened.
So the curtain dimension.
One thing I don't understand, John.
Some people have a PhD.
I forgot Johnny Byrne was on this.
The one day.
He was a lula.
Well, as such.
Just made no sense at all.
No, no.
But wasn't it glammy?
It was beautiful.
It was gloriously directed and very cheaply set.
It was gorgeous and lustrous and nothing happened because they were all happening. your parents were stoned and you didn't understand You don't understand.
But we have literally seen every other episode on this Blu-ray menu.
We really have.
And all of them made sense in some way.
But not this one.
Not this one.
It was very confusing.
It was.
I did enjoy how pretty it was, though.
Yeah.
So this is my thing.
It took me a while to realise it was boring and nothing was happening.
And I think the problem is that you have you ever had a conversation with a very attractive person and it takes you about 20 minutes to realise they're really dull.
Because you're looking at them for solo.
You're like, 0 my god, this guy's hot.
Am I going to try it on?
Is this going to turn into something?
Is it?
Oh, you're boring.
It's what Oscar Wild called the highest form of genius.
And he meant it because it's mesmeric.
You actually, it is.
It's the brilliance is captivating.
And they don't have to have a personality because they're pretty.
So that's this episode.
Yeah, it's very beautiful, vacuous.
It's a twink.
This episode is a twink.
Have we discussed this yet, Adam?
Because you know how there's in the subcultures, there's bears, cubs, otters.
I think it was James who decided that Twink's in that, you know, in that zootopian taxonomy. you know, taxonomy would be hairless mole rats.
Or maybe a skrink, which is what I call the the hairy twinks on scrub.
Squinks.
You know, the ones that you go, 0 my god, that guy's completely hot and then you talk to them, you're like, oh, you're dumb as a box of hammons.
But you've got a go tea.
That's adorable.
I've lost Kathy Burke.
We're looking at the photos.
It really was.
All right, I'm going to put a stop to this.
That was gripping.
Absolutely.
Unbelievable.
I've given you all the fun facts.
There aren't many.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
Does anyone want to plug anything?
Yes.
Yeah, but I'm going to go and visit him next.
Okay, all right.
Well, just check in with us on the way home.
No, that'd be awesome.
I've got nothing, really.
No, Brendan is about to put up our Avengers new stuff with Anna and Andre, but it's not quite yet because I'll go and push him in uncomfortable places until that's...
He's very busy at the moment.
He's very busy young. very busy.
Although I still have my 2 other podcasts.
What are you on the podcast, Adam?
Adam Richard has a theory.
Which is daily?
10 minutes of Doctor Who?
Something hideous.
And Glitter Plus, where at the moment, we have a strain of Glitter Plus called Christine Lardi in Space, where we have created a 90s television show, and each week one of us writes the TV guide synopsis for whatever the episode of Christine Lardi in Space.
She's a doctor on a space hospital. where sometimes there's a space avalanche.
I think they should be a segue.
And then the other one, like whoever, so one of us reads out the synopsis and the other one has to basically work out what happens in the episode.
It's so dumb.
And we also are doing a stream called Syrupy Tubcast, where we watch Made for Television movies.
And we've decided to have the 12 tubs of Christmas.
Oh, Christmas in February.
Christmas all year round.
Every month, another Christmas movie.
That's awesome.
We watched one with Michelle Pfeiffer, which we were calling Pfeiffer Noose.
And one with Melissa Joan Hart, who fell in love with a Nutcracker doll that came to life.
Yeah, that sounds terrifying.
It's awful.
All right, well, unless anyone has a closing remark on this episode, which seems to have kind of dropped from my memory without trace already.
Let me just say this.
Until next time, remember that euthanising your boss might seem like a good idea.
Um, that's that's it, really.
Yeah.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
We've all been in this game a long time.
Good night.
That's it.